# Individual-Project-Distributed-and-Parallel-Programming
Three individual programs for CSC4005, based on CPP, C, for more detailed description, output, system environment about the project, see reports inside each folder
* Parallel Odd-Even Transposition Sort
I developed the even-odd transposition sort function in both sequential structure and parallel structure through MPI.Odd-Even Transposition Sort is a sorting algorithm based on the Bubble Sort technique, which consists two phases, odd phase and even phase. In odd phase, every odd indexed element is compared with the next even indexed element. Even phase, on the other hand, compares every even indexed element with next odd indexed element. Under the parallel sorting structure, the function divides the input array in several chunks for each processor. Following the same instruction as we applied in the sequential sorting algorithm, we applies the odd sorting, boundary sorting, even sorting and odd sorting interleavingly to the input array. The project is implemented on C language and is tested on Linux OS, ubuntu 18.04.
* Mandelbrot Set Computation
I demonstrate the Mandelbrot Set in sequential structure, parallel structure through MPI, and parallel structure through Pthread architecture. The Mandelbrot set is the set of values of c in the complex plane for which the orbit of the critical point $z = 0$ under iteration of the quadratic map $z_{k+1$ = z_k^2 + c$ remains bounded.Thus, a complex number c is a member of the Mandelbrot set if, when starting with $z_0 = 0$ and applying the iteration repeatedly, the absolute value of zn remains bounded for all $k > 0$.  The project is implemented on C++ language and is tested on Linux OS, ubuntu 18.04.
*  we demonstrate the astronomical N-body system in two dimensional in sequential structure, parallel structure through MPI, parallel structure through Pthread and parallel structure through OpenMP. An N-body simulation is a simulation of a dynamical system of particles, usually under the influence of physical forces, such as gravity. The gravity between two particles is defined as
$$F = G \frac{m_1 \times m_2}{r_2}$$
In simulation, we assume that each iteration period represents for time period = 0.005s. The project is implemented on C++ language and is tested on Linux OS, ubuntu 18.04.
